26/04/23 

Indian English writer and novelist. 

For 20 years, the narrator said that his grandmother looked the same as if time had stood still for her. 

People said that she once has been young and pretty. 

Her portrait hung above the mantlepiece (the elevated platform above a fireplace). 

His grandfather wore a big turban and loose-fitting clothes. His long white beard covered his chest and he looked 100 years old. 

His granny told him about the games she used to play as a child. But the narrator thought that it was quite unreal and undignified. More like parts of fables of the prophets she used to tell him. 

She had always been short and fat and slightly bent. 

Her face was a criss-cross of wrinkles 

Since the narrator loved his granny, she has always been beautiful to him. 

She moved about the house wearing white clothes with one hand on her waist and the other counting beads on the rosary mumbling a silent prayer. 

Gray hair is referred to as silver locks scattered untidily. 

Compared to the winter landscape of the mountains, an expanse of pure white beauty serenity breathing peace and contentment. 




1. What was hard to believe about the author's grandmother? Why? 

> The idea of the author's grandmother being young and pretty was hard to believe for the author. 
	It is so because for all the years the author has known his grandmother, she has always been old, wrinkled, short and slightly bent which are contradicting the people's claims. 

2. What was the grandmother's routine when she lived together with the author in the village home? 

> When the author used to live with his grandmother, she used to wake him up in the morning and get him ready for school. She sang her morning prayer in a sing-song manner while she bathed and dressed the author for school. Then she would get his wooden slate, a tiny earthen ink pot and red pen and tie them up in a bundle and hand it to him. Fed him thick, stale chapatti with little butter and sugar spread on it and went to school. She also carried several chapattis for the village dogs. 

3. "She was like the winter landscape in the mountains." Explain. 

> The author's grandmother wore white clothes. Added to her calmness and white hair, she represents the winter landscape in the mountains that concealed treasures beneath its icy surface. 

4. How did the narrator's grandmother react to his receiving education in an English school? 

> The narrator's grandmother initially disapproved of his education in an English school. She believed that it would distance him from his Indian roots and cultural heritage. However, as the story progresses, the grandmother begins to recognize the value of education and eventually supports the narrator's pursuit of knowledge in English school. 

5. What was the happiest moment of the day for the grandmother? 

> The happiest moment of the day for the grandmother was when she sat on the verandah breaking bread into little pieces and feeding them to the sparrows who gathered around her. 

6. Describe the narrator's grandfather in brief. 

> The author has never actually met his grandfather but by seeing his portrait, he can assume that he looked at least a hundred years old and wore a big turban and loose-fitting clothes. His white beard was long enough to cover his chest. He looked like a person who did not have a wife and children but a lot of grandchildren. 

7. Why did the author and the members of his family feel sorry for the sparrows on the last day? 

> The author and the members of his family felt sorry for the sparrows on the last day because the grandmother was no more and the affection that she showed towards the birds could not be replaced by anyone. 



UTT

1. The three phases of the relationship of the author with his grandmother before leaving the country to study abroad are: 
(i) Childhood: his grandmother helped him while getting ready and went to the village school along with him. 
(ii) Boyhood: He shared a room with his grandmother when he studied at a city school. She was not able to help him in his studies. 
(iii) Early youth: The link of friendship was snapped when he was provided a separate room at the university. 

2. The three reasons why the grandmother of the author was disturbed when he went to the city school are: 
(i) She did not like Western learning and science. 
(ii) She was hurt when she came to know that there were no scriptures and teachings of god there. 
(iii) She did not like music and thought that it was not for gentlefolk and decent people. It was the monopoly of beggars. 

3. Three ways how the grandmother of the author spent her days after he grew up are: 
(i) She accepted the loneliness and lived unaccompanied in the room. 
(ii) She would recite prayers while sitting at the spinning wheel. 
(iii) For half an hour she fed the sparrows in the afternoon. 

4. The grandmother of the author did not speak to them before her death. The previous night she did not pray while singing homecoming songs and beating the drum, as she was not ready to waste time. She lay peacefully in her bed praying and telling beads and ignored the protests of her family members.

5. The dead body of the author's grandmother was surrounded by thousands of sparrows that did not chirrup. They did not even notice the bread crumbs which were thrown by the author's mother to feed them. They quietly flew away once the corpse of the grandmother was carried away. Hence, this way the sparrows expressed their sorrow when the author's grandmother died. 



Talking about the text


1. The grandmother of the author was a deeply religious person. This can be known from the different ways of their behavior. Every morning she visited the temple and read the scriptures. She mumbled inaudible prayers at home always and kept telling the rosary beads. She constantly repeated prayers like a song while helping the author get ready for school. She wished that the author would learn it by heart. She did not like English school as there was no teaching of scriptures and god. She would recite prayers even while spinning the spinning wheel. She once forgot to say her prayers. Before her death, she felt over-excited in the evening while celebrating her grandson's arrival with the beating of drums and songs. She continued telling beads of her rosary and praying till her last breath. 

2. The author was entirely dependent on his grandmother during his childhood. She was an important part of his life. However, a turning point came in their friendship when they moved to the city. As he went to school by bus, she was not able to accompany him. She could not help him in his studies though they shared the same room. She used to ask him what his teachers taught him and did not believe in the things which were taught at school. She was pained that he was not taught about the scriptures and god. As music was being taught, she felt offended and expressed her disapproval silently. She rarely spoke to the author about this. The link of friendship was snapped as he was given a separate room when he went to the university. However, their feelings towards each other did not change. They loved each other deeply. When he left the country and moved abroad for higher studies, she went to the railway station to send him. She quietly kissed his forehead and showed no emotion. This was valued by the author as it was the last sign of physical interaction between them. After five years when the author returned, she received him at the station. She clasped the author in her arms and celebrated his homecoming in the evening by beating at old drm and singing songs. 

3. Yes, I agree that the grandmother of the author was a person with a strong character. She was a woman with strong beliefs. Though she was not educated formally, she was more serious about the education of the author. She was not able to adjust herself to the Western lifestyle, English and science education. She did not like music and disapproved of its teaching in the schools. She was a religious woman whose lips were always moving in silent prayer and was telling the beads of her rosary. She daily went to the temple read the scriptures. When she got to know that there was no teaching of scriptures and God at the new English school of Khushwant, she was distressed. She was a kind woman who used to feed the dogs in the village. She was feeding sparrows in the city. Though weak in body and old in age she had a strong mind. She refused to talk to the family members before her death as she was not ready to waste her time. She wanted to make up the time she did not pray to god the previous evening. She lay peacefully in bed telling the beads of the rosary and saying prayers until her last breath. 

4. No, I have never seen or met anyone like the author's grandmother. 
	Losing someone whom we loved is surely painful but at the same time it's inevitable and time passes and we have to leave people behind.