1. What did the narrator planned to do? What perparations did he made for it? 
> The narrator planned a round-the-world voyage to duplicate the voyage made by Captain James Cook 200 years ago.
    To prepare for the trip, the narrator and his wife practiced their seafaring skills for the last 16 years and tested their ship 'Wavewalker' in the roughest weather they could find. 

2. Describe the boat which was made for undertaking the voyage. 
> To undertake the voyage, a boat named 'Wavewalker' was made which was a 23-meter, 30-ton wooden-hulled ship. 

3. How long did the narrator planned his voyage to last? 
> The narrator expected the voyage to last for three years.

4. When and with whom did the narrator begin his voyage? 
> The narrator started the voyage with his wife Mary, daughter Suzanne and son Jonathan. 

5. Whom did the narrator employ and why? When did he do so? 
> The narrator employed American Larry Vigil and Swiss Herg Seigler to help them face the rough waters of the Indian Ocean.
    On reaching South Africa, before heading towards the east, the narrator employed the crewmen.

6. What happened on the second day out of Cape Town? What worried the narrator and why? 
> On the second day out of Cape Town, the narrator saw huge waves which made their ship travel at very high speed for a small storm jib. They prepared themselves for any disaster by conducting drills and tied everything properly and wore oilskins and life jackets. 
    The narrator was worried because the waves blowing at a high pace and the height of the waves was alarming. One of the wave was so big that the narrator smashed his head on the wheel and was thrown overboard.

7. How did they celebrate christmas? 
> On 25th December, 1976, 3500 kilometres east of Cape town, the narrator, his family and the two crewmen celebrated christmas on their ship with a christmas tree. 

8. How did the weather change on January 2? How did they feel? 
> The weather changed for the worse on 2nd January. The waves were gigantic and they saw endless enormous waves rolling towards them. 
    The screaming of the wind and spray was painful to their ears.

9. What efforts were made to face the rough weather? 
> To face the rough weather, the narrator and the crew double lashed everything, conducted life-raft drill, attatched lifelines and wore oilskins and life jackets.

10. What sort of wave hit the ship? How did the narrator react?
> 