26/04/23 

Aristotle was the first to distinguish between living and non-living things. That's why he is known as the father of zoology and biology. 

Theophrastus is known as the father of botanology. 

1665 - invention of the microscope by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek

Heat is the infrared radiation being released 

Sunglasses filter the IR radiation and we fell cool 

Similar chemical processes leads to similar ideas and same thinking is same Robert Hooke and Antoni van Leeuwenhoek in 1665-83.  

Sodium and potassium are required for the movement in the body. 

Doctors are required to write the composition of the medicine. 

Microorganisms were discovered by Robert Hooke and Antoni van Leeuwenhoek in 1665-83.  

Electron microscope was invented in 1931 by Ernst Ruska and was able to see the DNA branch.  

Crop physiology: Plant physiology is a subdiscipline of botany concerned with the functioning, or physiology, of plants. Closely related fields include plant morphology, plant ecology, phytochemistry, cell biology, genetics, biophysics and molecular biology.

Fishery science: Fisheries science is the study of freshwater, marine and/or estuarine aquatic systems that involve humans. A fishery is any body of water with which humans interact, such as in the form of fishing or swimming.

Microbiology: Microbiology is the study of the biology of microscopic organisms - viruses, bacteria, algae, fungi, slime molds, and protozoa. The methods used to study and manipulate these minute and mostly unicellular organisms differ from those used in most other biological investigations. 

There are 34 biology hotspots worldwide 

Coal, petroleum, natural gas and wildlife are present in Tinsukia District  




2/5/23 


Points to define living 

1. Graoth is internal in living things that is irreversable and vice versa for non-living. 

2. Living beings reproduce

3. Metabolism is the biochemical processes that goes on inside the cell 

4. Cellular organisation of the cell. 

• Cells are living because metabolism is the most important characteristic to define living 

All the lifeforms present are collectively called biological diversity. 

Groups: classifying organisms 
Taxonomy: grouping of organisms on the basis of characteristics

Nomenclature: naming of things 

Nomenclature classification is standardised by binomial nomenclature 

Species have a similar morphological structire and also produce fertile offspring 

Species -> genus -> family -> order -> class -> division/phylum -> kingdom 

The above is called taxonomic hierarchy 

Genus and species are used to name a creature (binomial nomenclature) 

Carl Linnaeus is called the father of modern taxonomy 

Latin is a dead language so it has a solid foundation (no change) so its fixed 

__Rules for writing nomenclature__ 
1. Generic name starts with capital letter and species name starts with small letter. 
2. Underline the words when handwritten and italics in printed. 
3. It should be easy to pronounce 
4. Should be written in Latin 



03/05/23 

Kingdoms: 
	Monera 
	Protista 
	Plantae 
	Fungi 
	Animalia 

Monera is known as eubacteria (true bacteria)

Archaebactiria are known to be the oldest living organisms on earth. They belong to the kingdom monera. 

Acidohpilic bacteria are also found in tanks with concentrated H2SO4 tanks

Thermophilic bacteria are found in hot streams 

Eukaria = having eukaryotic cell. 

Systematics: Sytematics is commonly defined as the study of biological diversity and the relationships among organisms.

Taxnonomy: classify name by character. 

Taxonimic aids: 
	Museum 
	Zoological park
	Key 
	Botanical Garden 
	Herbarium 

Ways to preserve specimen in herbarium sheets:
	Drying: the specimen are dried and pressed between absorbent sheets to remove moisture. 
	Mounting: the dried specimen is arranged on a sheet with different parts appropriately psitioned 
	Gluing: the specimen is glued with non-color adhesive in order not to damage it 
	Labeling: each specimen is labelled with the scientific name, colleciton date, location, habitat, collector's name and any other data. 
	Protection: they are covered with transparent sheets; this protects it from dust, moisture and improper handling. 
	Storage: they are stored in specialized cabinets or herbarium cases with a stable and maintained environment (cool temperature, low humidity and minimized light exposure) 
	Maintenance: regular inspections and preventive measures for pests, monitoring humidity levels and addressing any issues that could potentially harm the collection. 
	

Living trees are also planted in the herbarium. 

Kolkata botanical garden is the largest botanical garden in India 

All plants are planted properly and habitat wise to keep a record of them 

If a species is not in the records, the discoverer can name it and add a description. 

An arboretum is a botanical collection composed exclusively of trees of a variety of species

>>> Zoological Parks 
	Zoological park (zoo) is a place where wild animals are kept in captivity.
	Wild animals are kept in a protected environment and care is taken to provide conditions similar to their natural habitat.


>>> Key

Specific features to identify a species. 


Monograph: Information of one taxon 

Flora: flower' information about one region 


