Python fundamentals 

02/05/23 

Letters digits special symbols whitespaces 

Each word and letter has a token

Token -> keyword (print, if, elif, etc) 

• Keywords are predefined, reserved words used in Python programming that have special meanings to the compiler. 


Addresses are used to point to a specific value 

Variable -> address and value 

Numbers are called integter (int) in a computer 

Decimals are in two categories: float and double 

Float has a fixed decimal limit but double hasn't.

Procedural languages are C, C++, Java, etc. but python is a non-procedural language 

int is used for numbers only if the user gives an input. 

'char' string is used for just one letter eg. char a = 'y', where a is a variable with the value as the letter 'y'
'str' is used for a group of letter eg. str b = "school", where b is a variable with the value of the string "school" 

Note that single quote is used for letters and double quote is used for words but they are the same in python. 

/ = line separator 

Eg.
	# use of separator 
	a = "today is/
	sunday"

the value of the string is saved in the variable a but printed as separate lines. 

Triple quotes is also used for multiline strings or docstrings. It allows to write multiple lines without the need of separators. 

Eg. 
	# use of docstrings
	a = '''This is a multiline
	string that spans
	multiple lines'''
	
	print (a) 


08/05/23

elif: 
	'elif' is a keyword used in an 'if' statement to check for additional conditions if the preceding 'if' condition is 'False'. It allows you to specify alternative conditions and code blocks to be executed when those conditions are 'True'. 





Exercise: 

Type B: 

1. 
(a) No error 
(b) Error; variable can't start with number 
(c) No error 
(d) Error; variable can't start with special character
(e) Error; variable can't contain spaces 
(f) Error; float is a keyword 
(g) 


2. 
(i) 1220
(ii) 30
(iii) 2000
(iv) 14.75 

3. 
(i) 'temperature' should be in parentheses 
(ii) Variable "b" not defined and 'And' is invalid syntax 
(iii) Semicolon aren't used for element separator 
(iv) Numbers can't be used as variable 
(v) No separator used 
(vi) "else" is a keyword 

4. 
(i) 13 22 
(ii) 11 3 33
(iii) 7 49 

5. 
(i) print statements couldn't be in codeblocks 
(ii) string can't be added to integer 
(iii) string can't be divided 
