1. What was Dorling's reaction when the narrator introduced herself? 
> Upon knockingat Mrs. Dorling's door and intorducing herself as Mrs. S's daughter, the narrator observed that Mrs. Dorling showed no sign of recognition.

2. Did Mrs. Dorling welcome the narrator to her house? 
>No, Mrs Dorling did not welcome the narrator to her house. As she hid herself and was talking with her in an abrupt way.

3. Who was Mrs. Dorling? Where did she lived? 
> Mrs. Dorling was a woman with a broad back. She wore a brown coat and a shapeless hat. She had a habit of hoarding other's belongings.
    She lived at Number 46, Marconi street.
    
4. How and when did the narrator come to know of Mrs. Dorling's address? 
> Years ago, during the early part of the war, the narrator's mother provided her with Mrs. Dorling's address. When the narrator returned home for a short visit, she found that many of her belongings had been stolen from her room. In response to this, her mother shared information about Mrs. Dorling and gave her the address as a potential solution.

5. What had the narrator's mother told her about Mrs. Dorling? 
> The narrator's mother informed her daughter that Mrs. Dorling had been coming to their house regularly, and each time she left, she took sme belongings with her. Mrs. Dorling suggested to her the narrator's mother that she will be keeping items somewhere safe to prevent them from losing everything. 

6. Why did Mrs. Dorling take away a number of things from the narrator's house? 
> Mrs. Dorling advised the narrator's mother to keep her belongings in a safer location. She wanted to protect all her lovely possessions.

7. When had the narrator met Mrs. Dorling for the first time? 
> The narrator first met Mrs. Dorling when she was a child. In the morning as she heard her mother talk with someone, she came downstairs and saw her mother saying goodbye to a woman with a broad back, brown coat and a shapeless hat. The woman nodded and took a suitcase. 

8. How had the conditions improve after the war? 
> After the war, things slowly returned to normal. The bread was getting in stock again, there were beds where you could sleed without fear and the rooms had views that you had grown accustomed to seeing every day. 

9. The narrator visited her native town many years after the war. Why did she wait so long? 
> The narrator waited for a long time because the war had deeply affected her emotionally and physically. She didn't want to return to that place because being there would bring back memories she wished to forget, especially when surrounded by her mother's belongings.

10. What happened when the narrator visited Mrs. Dorling for the second time?  
>

11. What was the first familiar thing did the narrator?
>

12. What familair things did the narrator find at Mrs. Dorling's house? 
>

13. What did the narrator recall about the silver cutlery she saw at Mrs. Dorling's house? 
>

14. Why did the narrator not care to see the silver cutlery that had once belonged to them? 
> 
