20/06/23

>>> Format for to the editor

Sender's address 
Eg- 31
Carol Bagh
Delhi 

Date
Eg- 20th June, 2023 

Receiver's address 
Eg- The Editor
The Telegraph 
Delhi 

Subject

Salutation (Sir/Ma'am)
Throught het columns of your esteemed daily, I would like to draw you attention to the problem of.... 

---- Body ---- 

Subscription (Yours Truly)
Name/Signature 


Q> Write a letter to the editor of a local daily expressing your views on polluting Yamuna, the Holy river. You are Rajni/Rajan of Lakshmi Nagar, Delhi. 

Lakshmi Nagar 
Delhi 

20 June, 2023 

The Editor 
The Telegraph
Delhi 

Subject: Concern regarding the pollution of Yamuna river 

Sir
Throuth the columns of your esteemed daily, I would like to draw you attention to the problem of Holy river Yamuna. 
    It has been observed that people as throwing garbage in the Holy river Yamuna in the form of stale food items, wrappers, construction waste, etc. The water in the river has become extremely polluted because of the waste from factories being released there.
Therefore I would like to urge the general public to take an initiative in cleaning the river of its waste and also restricting onefelf in littering waste in the river. I hope that the concerned authorisies will look into the matter nad take adequate measures in regaining or reviving the purity of the Holy river. 

Your truly
Rajan 


06/07/23 

Q> You're Krishna, a resident of Moti Nagar, Noida and have been coming across certain headlines in newspapers on shortage of electricity. You are also facing erratic supply of electricity in your locality. Write a letter to the Editor of a local daily regarding your plight and mentioning your inconvenience faced by the residents of the locality.

Moti Nagar
Noida

6 July, 2023 

The Editor
The Noida Times 
Noida

Subject: Concern regarding erratic power supply

Sir, 
Thought the columns of your esteemed local daily, I would like to draw your kind attention towards the problem of erratic power supply in our locality. 
    In these days, it had been observed that there is irregular power supply in and around Noida and this is creating a massive problem to the residents. Students are having problem to study at night, households are facing inconvenience to do their chores and also most importantly, due to irregular power supply, this has caused a road accident in my locality and people are not feeling safe inside their houses as the absence of electricity helps robbers and thieves to hide in the dark.
Therefore, I would like to urge the concerned authorisies to look up to the problem and fix it as soon as possible. Your cooperation will be very grateful for all the people residing in Noida.

Yours truly
Krishna 