26/04/23 

Indian english writer and novelist. 

For 20 years, the narrator said that his grandmother looked the same as if time had stood still for her. 

PeoPle said that she once has been young and pretty. 

Her portrait hung above the mantlepiece (the elevated platform above a fireplace. 

His grandfather wore a big turban and loose-fitting clothes. Long white beard covered till the chest and he looked 100 years old. 

His granny said the games she used to play as a child. But the narrator thought that its quite unreal and undignified. More like parts of fables of the prophets she used to tell him. 

She had always been short and fat and slightly bent. 

Face was a criss-cross of wrinkles 

Since the narrator loved his granny, she has always been beautiful for him. 

She moved avout the house wearing white clothes with one hand on her waist and the other ocunting beads on the roasery mumbling silent prayer. 

Gray hair is referred as silver locks scattered untidily. 

Compared her by the winter landscape of the mountains, an expanse of pure white beauty serenity breathing peace and contentment. 




1. What was hard to believe about the author's grandmother? Why? 

> The idea of the author's grandmother being young and pretty was hard to believe for the author. 
	It is so because for all the years the author has known his grandmother, she has always been old, wrinkled, short and slightly bent which are contradicting to the people's claims. 

2. What was grandmother's routine when she lived together with the author in the village home? 

> When the author used to live with his grandmother, she used to wake him up in the morning and get him ready for school. She sang her morning prayer in a sing-song manner while she bathed and dressed the author for school. Then she would get his wooden slate, a tiny earthen ink pot and red pen and tie them up in a bendle and hand it to him. Fed him thick, stale chapatti with little butter and sugar spread on it and went to school. She also carried several chapattis for the village dogs. 

3. "She was like the winter landscape in the mountains." Explain. 

> The author's grandmother wore white clothes. Added with her calmness and white hair, she really represents the winter landscape in the mountains that concealed treasures beneath its icy surface. 

4. How did the narrator's grandmother react to his receiving education in an English school? 

> The narrator's grandmother initially disapproved of his education in an english school. She believed that it would distance him from his Indian roots and cultural heritage. However, as the story progresses, the grandmother begins to recognise the value of education and eventually supports the narrator's pursuit of knowledge in English school. 

5. What was the happiest moment of the day for the grandmother? 

> The happiest moment of the day for the grandmother was when she sat on the verandah breaking bread into little pieces and feeding them to the sparrows who gathered around her. 

6. Describe the narrator's grandfather in brief. 

> The author has never actually met his grandfather but by seeing his portrait, he can assume that he looked at least a hunderd years old and wore a big turban and loose fitting clothes. His white beard was long enough to cover his chest. He loooked like a person who did not had a wife and children but a lot of grandchildren. 

7. Why did the author and the members of his family felt sorry for the sparrows in the last day? 

> The author and the members of his family felt sorry for the sparrows in the last day because the grandmother was no more and the affection that she showed towards the birds could not be replaced by anyone. 



UTT

1. The three phases of the relationship of the author with his grandmother before leaving the country to study abroad are: 
(i) Childhood: his grandmother helped him while getting ready and went to the village school along with him. 
(ii) Boyhood: He shared a room with his grandmother when he studied at a city school. She was not able to help him in his studies. 
(iii) Early youth: The link of friendship was snapped when he was provided a separate room at the university. 

2. The three reasons why the grandmother of the author was disturbed when he went to the city school are: 
(i) She did not like western learning and science. 
(ii) She was hurt when she came to know that there were no scriptures and teachings of god there. 
(iii) She did not like music and thought that it was not for gentlefolk and decent people. It was the monopoly of beggars. 

3. Three ways how the grandmother of the author spent her days after he grew up are: 
(i) She accepted the loneliness and lived unaccompanied in the room. 
(ii) She would recite prayers while sitting at the spinning wheel. 
(iii) For half an hour she fed the sparrows in the afternoot. 

4. The grandmother of the author did not speak to them before her death. The previous night she did not pray while singing homecoming songs and beating the drum, as she was not ready to waste time. She laid peacefully in her bed praying and telling beads and ignored the protests of her family members.

5. The dead body of the author's grandmother was surrounded by thousands of sparrows which did not chirrup. They did not even notice the bread crumbs which were thrown by the author's mother to feed them. They quitely flew away once the corpse of the grandmother was carried away. Hence, this way the sparrows expressed their sorrow when the author's grandmother died. 



Talking about the text


1. The grandmother of the author was a deeply religious person. This can be known from the different ways of ther behaviour. Every morning she visited the temple and read the scriptures. She mumbled inaudible prayers at home always and kept telling the rosary beads. She constantly repeated prayers like a song while helping the author get ready for school. She wished that the author would learn it by heart. She did not like English school as there was no teaching of scriptures and god. She would recite prayers even while spinning in the spinning wheel. She once forgot to say her prayers. Prior to her death she felt over excited in the evening while celebrating her grandson's arrival with beating of drums and songs. She continued telling beads of rosary and praying till her last breath. 

2. The author was entirely dependent on his grandmother during his childhood. She was an important
