>>> Meaning and concept of sports training. 
Training is a process where we prepare ourselves, guided by experts, to achieve success. In sports, training focuses on fitness and conditioning. It's a complex preparation involving various programs that directly impact athletes' development and readiness for success. Sports training is a systematic plan using exercises that greatly enhance athletes' physical development. To achieve goals, it requires regular exercises, supplementary training, rehab, performance assessment, special nutrition, and mental strength. In essence, sports training is a specialized process aimed at improving performance in games and sports.

>> Definition of sports training. 
According to Martin, "Sports training is a planned and controlled process in which, for achieving a goal, changes in complex sports motor performance, ability to act and behavious are made through measures of content, method and organization."

>> Principles in Sports Training
1. Regularity
Regular training is very important and should be done without long breaks. Irregular schedule does not improve fitness. 

2. Proper Loading 
Gradual increase in load improves performance and it should be increased after the adaptation of the previous work or load. 

3. Scientific and specific Training 
The training should be done in accordance to the game and it should particularly improve the desired ability. 

4. Individual difference
The training should be done in according to the individual's limits; keeping in mind the age, sex, height, heredity and environmental factors. 

5. Recovery
There should be proper rest, relaxation and sleep after every schedule of hard work. The rest shouldn't be too long and one should be ready for further workout. 

6. Proper warming up and limbering down
Training should start with warming up and end with limbering down and it is also important for prevention of injuries. 

7. Progression 
The training should start with easy training in the start and gradually increase the difficulty. 

8. Safety and prevention 
Safety measures should be carried out while working out to prevent injuries. 

9. Principles in rest and recovery 
The training program should give the trainee proper rest and intervals during activities. 

10. Principles of ensuring results 
The main aim of training should be to enable the sportsperson to give their best performance during competitions. This principle aims to result at guaranteeing good performce and maintaining it for a long period. 

11. Principles of cyclicity
The sports training program should be developed throuogh various training cycles such as 3 months, 6 months, etc. 

12. Principles of specificity
Specific exercises should be given to the trainees specific to their sports which ensures better performance in the field. 

13. Principles of active involvement 
The athlete should be active and willing to participate in training programms regularly. 

14. Principles of variety 
The coach should plan variety in the training programe to maintain interest in the athletes.


>>> Training Load: over load, adaptation and recovery 

> Load 
It is a result of athletic conditioning, training and competition. It can be defines as a stimulus experienced and responded to by an individual prior to, during or after participation in an activity. It causes temporary disturbance or stress and has internal and external components which may lead to positive or negative results depending on how the individual deals with it. If safely managed, it may improve athletic capacity, performance, injury or illness risk reduction. 

> Overload
It is excessive, not managable or not well maintained by the athlete. It results in physiological or psychological conditions that manifest as altered performance and injury and illness. Identification, modification and minimizing overload is advised for a good performance and also for injuries and illness prevention strategies. 

> Recovery
Refers to the process during which the body responds to load. Adequate recovery may result in positive results and adaptations for athletic capacity, better performance and less risk of injuries and illness. Inadequate recovery may results in mal-adaptations for athletic capacity, degrading performce more risk of injuries and illness. 

> Adaptation
It is the adjustment done by the body towards the load or when a body starts working without any efforts. Adjustment to load increases performce.

>>> Concept of Doping and its disadvantages 

>> Concept of Doping
Doping in sports is the use of banned substances or methods to enhance performance. It's cheating and harms athletes' health while undermining fair competition. Organizations enforce rules, conduct tests, and impose penalties to deter doping.

Doping comes under the following conditions: 
1. Use or attempt to use a prohibited substance or method. 
2. Presence of a prohibited substance or method. 
3. Failure to file athlete's whereabouts after being notified. 
4. Refusing to submit sample collection after being notified. 
5. Possession of a prohibited substance or method. 
6. Tampering with any part of doping control process. 

>> Classification of Doping 

1. Performce enhancing substances
2. Physical methods 

> Performce enhancing substances 

1. Peptide hormones
These hormones improve the growth of muscles, change the balance of other hormones increasing the production of red blood cells and increasing the ability of blood to carry oxygen. 

2. Stimulants: These are drugs that enhance alertness and breathing rates which increase heart rate and functions of the brain. They also increase aggressiveness. 

3. Diuretics: These drugs remove the water from the body rapidly and helps in weight loss.

4. Narcotics: these drugs reduce or eliminate pain from injuries and allows athletes to play longer. But reducing pain may increase injuries because the person will not feel any pain. 

5. Cannabinoids: These are psychoactive chemicals that cause a feeling of relaxation. 

6. Glucocorticosteroids: These drugs relieve fatigue and pain and increase pain tolerance. 

7. Beta-2-Agonists: these drugs are usually used to treat asthma but due to their properties, they are used illegally to allow more oxygen to reach the blood. 

8. Anabolic steroids: These stimulate the growth of muscles and help athletes to train harder and recover rapidly. These increase the muscle size and strength, increasing performance in sports. 


> Physical methods

1. Blood doping
Here, a participant's blood is taken out week prior match and refridgerated then before competition, it is injected in the body to increase the red blood cell count. This is called autologous blood doping.
    Homologous blood doping injects fresh blood from another person directly to the athlete. 
Blood doping increases the number of RBC and increases oxygen carrying capacity of the muscles leading expansion of muscle endurance which enhances sports performance. Artificial oxygen carriers can also be used for blood doping.

2. Gene doping
Gene doping is the manipulation of cells or genes to enchance the body's sports performance. Modifying genes enables faster reaction and increases physical strength.

>> Disadvantges of Doping
> Side effects in men 
Acne, impaired liver function, impotency, breast formation (gynecomastia), increased sex drive, male pattern baldness, risk of heast failure/heart attacks, liver damage

> Side effects in women 
Hair loss, Enlargement of the clitoris, increased sex drive, irregularities of the menstrual cycle, development of masculine facial traits, increased coarseness of the skin, premature closure of the epiphysis, deepening of the voice. 